DOCSP-39705: Cursors (#72)
mongodb/docs-java-rs: source/read/cursors.txt

.. _java-rs-cursors:

=========================
Access Data From a Cursor
=========================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference

.. meta::
   :keywords: read, results, oplog

Overview
--------

> In this guide, you can learn how to access data from a **cursor** with the

Reviewer: S: to avoid "with":
```suggestion
In this guide, you can learn how to access data from a **cursor** by using the
```

> In this guide, you can learn how to access data from a **cursor** by using the

Reviewer 2: This is an interesting one. With reactive streams, cursors really are an implementation detail of the stream and not really a user facing detail to be documented.

I think we either add a big caveat that this is the case, eg. 

In the mongodb reactive stream driver, some streams are backed by cursors. The size of batches used in these underlying cursors depend on the demand requested on the Subscription for the Publisher.

Author: I'll include an addendum like this to the intro!

batches. Because a cursor holds only a subset of documents at any given time,
cursors reduce both memory consumption and network bandwidth usage.

Whenever the {+driver-short+} performs a read operation that returns multiple
documents, it automatically returns those documents in a cursor.

Sample Data
~~~~~~~~~~~

The examples in this guide use the ``sample_restaurants.restaurants`` collection
from the :atlas:`Atlas sample datasets </sample-data>`. To learn how to create a
free MongoDB Atlas cluster and load the sample datasets, see the
:ref:`<java-rs-getting-started>` guide.

.. include:: includes/reactor-note.rst

Access Cursor Contents Iteratively
----------------------------------

To iterate over the contents of a cursor, use the ``Flux.from()`` method, as shown in the
following example:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/read-ops/cursors.java
   :start-after: start-cursor-iterate
   :end-before: end-cursor-iterate
   :language: java
   :dedent:
   :copyable:

Retrieve All Documents
----------------------

.. warning::

   If the number and size of documents returned by your query exceeds available
   application memory, your program will crash. If you expect a large result

>    set, :ref:`access your cursor iteratively <kotlin-sync-cursors-iterate>`.

Reviewer 2: nit: links to kotli-sync-cursors-iterate

> To retrieve all documents from a cursor, convert the cursor into a ``List`` as

Reviewer: S: add a comma
```suggestion
To retrieve all documents from a cursor, convert the cursor into a ``List``, as
```

shown in the following example:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/read-ops/cursors.java
   :start-after: start-cursor-list
   :end-before: end-cursor-list
   :language: java
   :dedent:
   :copyable:

Tailable Cursors
----------------

When querying on a :manual:`capped collection </core/capped-collections/>`, you
can use a **tailable cursor** that remains open after the client exhausts the

> results in a cursor. To create a tailable cursor with capped collection,
> specify ``CursorType.TailableAwait`` to the ``cursorType`` method of a

Reviewer: S: I think you can clarify the wording here a little, something like:

```suggestion
results in a cursor. To create a tailable cursor on a capped collection,
pass a value of ``CursorType.TailableAwait`` to the ``cursorType()`` method of a
```

``FindPublisher`` object.

> The following example creates a tailable cursor on a collection:

Reviewer: S: since the code also prints the cursor results, I'd include that in the description
```suggestion
The following example creates a tailable cursor on a collection and prints its contents:
```

.. _java-rs-cursors:

=========================
Access Data From a Cursor
=========================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference

.. meta::
   :keywords: read, results, oplog

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to access data from a **cursor** by using the
{+driver-short+}.

A cursor is a mechanism that returns the results of a read operation in iterable
batches. Because a cursor holds only a subset of documents at any given time,
cursors reduce both memory consumption and network bandwidth usage.

> Whenever the {+driver-short+} performs a read operation that returns multiple

Reviewer 2: I think this paragraph is now redundant.

> Whenever the {+driver-short+} performs a read operation that returns multiple
> documents, it automatically returns those documents in a cursor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
